# Characters

## Character List

The character list can be used for listing characters used in your novel. The
overall name is used as the list entry. Characters can be added, removed,
archived, or edited.

## Character Details

To the right of the character list is the character. The following fields are 
used to add details to the character:

### Name

Name of your character. This will be the display name throughout the rest of 
your novel.

### Label

The label is used to easily identify your characters in writing scenes or 
plotlines. The label will be automatically filled in based on the **Name** and 
is calculated based on the first two letters of each character's name. For 
example, for the name `John Doe` Plotline will fill in the **Label** as `JoDo`. 
Of course, this can always be changed.

To refer to the character by label (the preferred method), precede the label 
with an "at" (`@`) character. So to refer to the character *John Doe* in the
[Scenes](./scene.markdown) or [Plotlines](./plotline.markdown) type `@JoDo`.
See the [Scenes](./scene.markdown) documentation for more information.

### Nick Name

Every character has a nick name now, right? This is for your records only.

### Color

The developer of Plotline believes everything is better in color! That's why 
you have the ability to choose a color for your character.

To choose a color, click the **Choose Color** button. If you do not want a 
color for your character, click the **Clear Color** button.

Besides being the 
background color for the character in the **Character List** the color will 
also be the background color when a *character label* is detected in the 
[Scenes](./scene.markdown) or [Plotlines](./plotline.markdown).

### Headshot

A headshot is useful to help visualize a person and make the character more 
believable.

A headshot can be selected from your hard drive. To select a headshot, click 
the **Choose Headshot** button to select a headhshot. The headshot is saved 
within the `.pln` file itself and cannot be exported from the application.

### Add Character

To add a character, click the **Add Character** button. A new entry will be 
displayed in the list and the **Character Details** on the right will be 
enabled, allowing you to modify the character's details.

### Remove Character

To remove a character, select the character and click **Remove Character**. A 
dialog will open asking if you would like to really remove the character 
(annoying, I know, but we don't want any lawsuits). Click **Delete** to remove 
the character or **Cancel** to keep the character.