# Plotline

This will mainly be used for non-linear stories (meaning, stories with more 
than one plotline), but can be useful for any type of story.

## Plotline Table

Compared to the [Character Tab](./character.markdown) the plotline tab includes 
a table where the details are listed. Three fields--or columns--are displayed 
within the table and are available within the **Plotline Dialog**

### Brief

A one-liner describing what happens with this plotline. Used for displaying in 
subsequent tabs.

### Synopsis

A more detailed description of this scene. Used more for your reference.

### Characters Involved.

Characters created in the [Character Tab](./character.markdown) will be 
displayed here in a comma-separated list.

## Actions

The following actions can be performed on plotlines.

### Add Plotline

On adding a plotline, the plotline dialog will be displayed to enter initial 
values. Upon clicking **OK** the dialog will be closed and the new plotline 
will be added to the plotline table.

### Edit Plotline

To edit a plotline, either double-click on the plotline to edit, or select the 
plotline and click the **Edit Plotline** button. A **Plotline Dialog** will be 
displayed with the plotline to be edited.

### Delete Plotline.

To delete a plotline select the plotline you'd like to delete and click the 
**Delete Plotline** button. A dialog will be displayed confirming you'd like to 
delete the plotline. Click **OK** to delete the plotline, **Cancel** if you do 
not want to delete it. The plotline will be removed from the table.

## Plotline Dialog

This dialog will be displayed when either creating or modifying a plotline. The 
fields listed above will be displayed in the dialog in addition to two more 
fields:

### Color

The plotline can be given a color. This color will be used for the background 
color in the **Plotline Table** as well as the background color for the scenes 
in the [Scenes Tab](./scenes.markdown).

To assign a color click on the **Choose Color** button. To clear the color 
click the **Clear Color** button.

### Character Search Field

Directly above the **Characters Involved** is a search field. To search by name 
simply type in the character's name. The checkboxes will be filtered 
dynamically. Users can also be filtered by label. Simply start the search with 
an "at sign" (`@`) to display results with that character label. To display all 
the characters again empty the search field.